Rainbow

Cascadas Skógafoss

a meteorological phenomenon that is caused by reflection, refraction and dispersion of light in water droplets resulting in a spectrum of light appearing in the sky. 

	⁃	takes the form of a multicoloured arc 
	⁃	always appear in the section of sky directly opposite the sun. 
	⁃	centred on a line from the sun to the observer's eye 
	⁃	In a primary rainbow, the arc shows red on the outer part and violet on the inner side 
	⁃	In a double rainbow, a second arc is seen outside the primary arc, and has the order of its colours reversed 

	⁃	it is impossible for an observer to see a rainbow from water droplets at any angle other than the customary one of 42 degrees from the direction opposite the light source. 
	⁃	Rainbows span a continuous spectrum of colours. 
	⁃	usually seen in the western sky during the morning and in the eastern sky during the early evening. 
	⁃	also commonly seen near waterfalls or fountains 
	⁃	As human visual perception for colour is poor in low light, moonbows are often perceived to be white 
	⁃	From above the earth such as in an airplane, it is sometimes possible to see a rainbow as a full circle 
	⁃	The sky inside a primary rainbow is brighter than the sky outside of the bow 

	⁃	Seawater has a higher refractive index than rain water, so the radius of a "rainbow" in sea spray is smaller than a true rainbow. 
	⁃	The rainbow is curved because the set of all the raindrops that have the right angle between the observer, the drop, and the sun, lie on a cone pointing at the sun with the observer at the tip. 

Variations
	⁃	The secondary rainbow is fainter than the primary 
	⁃	twinned rainbow appears as two rainbow arcs that split from a single base, caused by combination of different sizes of water drops falling from the sky. 
	⁃	Full circle rainbow
	⁃	Supernumerary rainbow / stacker rainbow
	⁃	Reflected rainbow
	⁃	Monochrome rainbow / red rainbow
	⁃	Higher-order rainbow: Up to the 200th-order rainbow was reported by Ng et al. in 1998 using a similar method but an argon ion laser beam 
	⁃	Moonbow

Other like rainbow
	⁃	glory
	⁃	fogbow / circumzenithal and circumhorizontal arcs 
	⁃	halo

Scientific history
	⁃	Greek scholar Aristotle (384–322 BC) was first to devote serious attention to the rainbow 
	⁃	In Song Dynasty China (960–1279), a polymathic scholar-official named Shen Kuo (1031–1095) 
	⁃	Roger Bacon was the first to calculate the angular size of the rainbow. 
	⁃	Descartes' 1637, the size of raindrops did not appear to affect the observed rainbow, 
	⁃	Isaac Newton demonstrated that white light was composed of the light of all the colours of the rainbow 
	⁃	Thomas Young realised that light behaves as a wave under certain conditions, and can interfere with itself

Culture
	⁃	One of the earliest literary occurrences of a rainbow is in Genesis 9, as part of the flood story of Noah, where it is a sign of God's covenant to never destroy all life on earth with a global flood again 
	⁃	In Norse mythology, the rainbow bridge Bifröst connects the world of men (Midgard) and the realm of the gods (Asgard). 
	⁃	The Irish leprechaun's secret hiding place for his pot of gold is usually said to be at the end of the rainbow. This place is appropriately impossible to reach, because the rainbow is an optical effect which cannot be approached. 
